- [Instructor] Let's create a Angular directive
to show a list of available rooms.
Let's open up IntelliJ,
navigate to app.component.html.
Let's go line 39
and add in a new h1 element.
The content for this header will be Available Rooms.
Now, let's create a div element.
Let's add the class, row.
And then nested in that div, let's create another div
and add the class, col-12.
These classes are part of the row and column layout system.
Rows are ways to vertically organize your content
and columns are ways to horizontally arrange your content.
A row has 12 columns, so column 12 will be a full row.
Let's nest one more div and add the class, table-responsive.
This div is meant to contain a responsive table element.
Now, let's create a table element
and let's add the class, table,
and the id, roomsTable.
Within the table, let's nest a tbody element.
This element is meant to contain the body of the table.
Now, let's create a tr element, which is a table row,
and then let's create a td element, which is a data cell
within a table row.
In the first td, let's create an image element
and let's set the src to assets/images/intro_room.jpg.
Now, let's create another td element
and let's create a strong block for emphasis
with the text Room Number.
Then let's create another strong block with the text Price.
Now, let's start adding in some dynamic Angular code.
On our outermost div element, let's use a ngIf directive.
A ngIf directive is a structural directive.
If rooms is present, then this element will be shown.
Otherwise, it will not be shown.
Now, let's go to the tr element nested in the tbody element.
Let's add in a ngFor directive.
A ngFor directive renders the template
for each item in a collection.
So basically, you iterate through all the items
in the collection and you create elements for each one.
Type in, let room of rooms.
So basically, this ngFor directive
will create one of these rows for each element
in the rooms collection.
For each of room of the rooms collection,
we are going to enter in the room number here in the page.
And then on the next line, we're going to display the price.
This rooms collection will be defined
in our app.components.ts file.
Let's open up our typescript file
and let's define a class to represent the room.
Let's type in export class
Room
and let's add three fields, id, roomNumber, and price.
Each of these fields will be a string.
Now, let's create a constructor that takes in
all three fields.
Now, let's set the id of the class to the passed-in id
and do the same for roomNumber and price.
Now, let's define a collection of rooms.
Let's name the variable rooms
and set it equal to an array of rooms.
Now, let's create a ngOnInit block.
This block will be triggered on load of the page.
Let's initialize the value of rooms on page load.
Let's set the value of rooms to a hard-coded list of rooms
that we define here.
Let's instantiate a new instance of Room,
passing in the values
id 127,
room number 127,
and price 150.
Let's copy that new Room statement
and add it in two more times.
For the second room, let's make it 138
and this is a bit fancier, so let's set the price at 180.
And let's go 254 for the third room
and this room will cost 200.
Let's go ahead and save.
So this list of rooms
will be used in this directive
to populate three rows of data, one for each room.
Let's go ahead and save,
right-click on the root directory,
synchronize to refresh, open up a terminal,
make sure we're in the right location, and execute ng serve.
Let's open up a browser and head to localhost at 4200.
Now, we can see that we are displaying a room
for each item in that collection.
Let's head back to IntelliJ, open up app.component.html,
and add a line break at line 52.
Angular should automatically recompile your code.
So now, the room number and price is displayed
with a line break.
So we've successfully created an Angular directive
to display a list of rooms.